>> Steve Kinney: Let's take
a look at Zod for a second.
We can see that there's a few things
to kind of take note of when we look
at the site.
One is, we'll see,
I'll look at the sidebar in a moment.
But two is scrolling past the sponsors.
This is what I want to look
at the ecosystem, right?
One of the things that I want
to kind of encourage you is,
if there are other things that you use,
there might be libraries for
kind of integrating with that.
So you can kind of get a lot of things for
free.
I think more importantly, yes, you can
use it with React, hook form that the we
talked about, we joked earlier, that
stuff, users type might be problematic.
And having the form validation, so
your same schema that you're using on
the request body in Express or when
you're gonna get it back from the API.
You can also use those same schemas for
the forms that your users are filling out.
Again, if you use Formik,
there's other ones, so on and so forth.
And there's for spell kit,
there's the ability then also to
turn them into JSON schema, or
take a bunch of schemas and
turn them into type script types, right?
So for a lot of these things, what I
want to call out is, if there are things
that you think you need to do very
tediously, it is worth at least checking.
To see if somebody else did it tediously
first and seeing if you have it as well.
There are some other interesting things
that you can do that you cannot do in
TypeScript.
And so, like I said before,
there is a coercion,
which is kinda nice,
which is the ability to say like a string.
You can also actually,
but like an email, right?
And obviously Typescript's
not going to do that for you.
There's some like template literals
that you can use, but the type will be
a string, but then you can also actually
like make sure that it is truly an email,
something so on and so forth.
Which is also very useful, again, for
when you're receiving it in the API level
before you put it in the database, right?
You can probably take lines and
lines and lines of regex.
And code and stuff to make sure that
the number's positive, so on and so forth,
and probably eliminate that as well.
But if it's something that can coerce
into a string, you can do that first,
so on and so forth.
And there's also the ability to do a lot
of the utility types that we're used to
seeing from Typescript,
all of those are available as well, right?
So you get a little bit more than you get
from TypeScript, and then you can always,
like, create the TypeScript
types out of it as well.
Installing Zod is relatively easy,
the simplest use case.
And we're going to do some
examples together in a second.
But we'll do the high level,
which is like, again, just a string.
It will parse a string.
Just a number, so on and so forth, right?
You can also do things like making sure
that it's a date object or a big int.
All of the things that
you want are in there.
You can start to, then build up things
as well, and then generate those types,
like we said, but there's some
nice things you can do, which is,
you can also make sure that
it's got a minimum length.
Things you can't do in TypeScript,
which is, again,
because you have full access to the data
object itself, because a lot of times,
like TypeScript couldn't help you,
if you if it wanted to.
Again, if it's outside those walls,
you do literals.
So instead of a string, no, no, no,
it should be the string, hello, right?
Or if you want to use this is not
technically like the typescript version of
an enum, but this is like effectively
a union of strengths to say hey,
it should be read the string.
Read the string green, or
the sring blue, right?
If you have something that can
only be a few different strings,
this one will throw in all of
those cases if that's not.
And that's a lot easier than if you had
to try to figure out from the type.
You'd either have to do that by hand or
again, put it into a data structure and
then iterate over it,
this kinda get it all for free.
>> Steve Kinney: Other fun things we
can do, a tuple or tuple, your choice.
I'm not having that fight right now,
is to say like an array of two things,
the first one being a string and
the second one being a number.
The tuple that we probably or tuple,
I haven't decided which one I want to say
because it's not a word I
say out loud that often,
that we see a lot of times is
something like useState in React.
Sure, it's an array, but that first one is
always the current state and the second
thing out of that array from useState is
the ability to set At the state, right?
And so
to know exactly what types those are.
Is incredibly powerful as well.
You can also do unions in this case,
and so
this will be either a string or
a number as well.
Intersections, again,
all of the TypeScript stuff that you know
that you can use, you can use as well.
But where this gets a little bit more
powerful is then you can begin to compose
some of these things, right?
And so if you have a schema,
like we talked about those
nested JavaScript objects,
right, you can just reference a different
schema for that value of that key, right?
Or you can extend one in the same way
you might extend an interface face and
TypeScript, right?
And add more things to it, or grab we can
pick things out of it, so on and so forth.
Do a lot of times, if you find yourself
like rewriting the same things over and
over by hand again.
Keep in mind that you have
a programming language and
you can, like,
begin to compose things as well.